(Slightly) alternative solution for Milk Pails (#6231)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/usaco-620.mdx

</LanguageSection>

> ## Alternate Solution 1: BFS

Reviewer: Maybe just call this Solution 1 and the below Solution 2

Author: Well... there's already an existing solution, so numbering all the following solutions Alternate Solution 1 feels appropriate.

Should we rename the existing solution solution 1 and make this solution 2, the below solution 3?  If so feel free to push the update directly and we can merge.

Author: Nevermind... changing it myself

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

> ## Alternate Solution 2: DP-style Approach

Reviewer 2: Dynamic Programming is not introduced in Silver module. Plus this problem is not referenced in any Dp topics in Gold. 

Is this alternate solution necessary then?

Author: This problem is referenced in another gold module, so by that point some people are likely know DP to understand this solution—so I feel like there's a value in showing that it's possible to do it this way as well, as it highlights the fact that this approach and the other ones all rely on the fact that once you reach a state, the previous history doesn't matter.

But personally I was 33 points away from making Gold on USACO :sob: so I'd be open to other opinions on whether this is going to be useful.  If not, then close the PR.

The possible "states" in this problem are a combination of the number of moves taken, and the amount of milk in both cups after this number of moves.

Let $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, a boolean, represent if it is possible to get to the amounts in the cups being $(i,j)$ in $l$ steps.
Note that any $\texttt{f}$-value with $l=l_0$ can only transition to a state such that $l=l_0+1$, so we compute $\texttt{f}$ in order of $l$.

First, initialize $\texttt{f}[0][0][0]$ as true, as there is no milk initially with no operations.
Now, run through $l$'s such that $0\leq l<k$, and all possible $i$'s and $j$'s with that $l$; for any true state $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, mark $\texttt{f}[i'][j'][l+1]$ as true for all $(i', j')$'s that can result from a single operation based on $(i, j)$.
The possible operations and their mathematical representations can be found in the BFS section, and will not be repeated here.

The answer is simply the minimum of $|i+j-m|$ for all true $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$'s in the entire state space.

### Implementation

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp

> #include <fstream>

Reviewer 2: Can you format your code a little , like make it consistent with other solutions. (i.e. use int instead of signed, put ifstream and  ofstream inside main function... Stuff like this

Author: I've formatted it — see if it's better now.

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

## Alternate Solution 2: DP-style Approach

The possible "states" in this problem are a combination of the number of moves taken, and the amount of milk in both cups after this number of moves.

Let $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, a boolean, represent if it is possible to get to the amounts in the cups being $(i,j)$ in $l$ steps.

> Note that any $\texttt{f}$-value with $l=l_0$ can only transition to a state such that $l=l_0+1$, so we compute $\texttt{f}$ in order of $l$.

Reviewer 2: can you describe what $l_0$ is here ?

Author: It's the values of $l$ being enumerated over.  I'll update it.

First, initialize $\texttt{f}[0][0][0]$ as true, as there is no milk initially with no operations.
Now, run through $l$'s such that $0\leq l<K$, and all possible $i$'s and $j$'s with that $l$; for any true state $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, mark $\texttt{f}[i'][j'][l+1]$ as true for all $(i', j')$'s that can result from a single operation based on $(i, j)$.
The possible operations and their mathematical representations can be found in the BFS section, and will not be repeated here.

The answer is simply the minimum of $|i+j-m|$ for all true $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$'s in the entire state space.

### Implementation

> <LanguageSection>
> 
> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal O(XYK)$
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal O(XYK)$

<LanguageSection>

```

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <fstream>
using namespace std;

constexpr int MAX_CUP_CAPACITY = 100;
constexpr int MAX_OPERATIONS = 100;
constexpr int INF = 2e9;

// f[i][j][l] represents if we can get to (i,j)
// in exactly l steps
bool f[MAX_CUP_CAPACITY + 1][MAX_CUP_CAPACITY + 1][MAX_CUP_CAPACITY + 1];

int main() {
	ifstream fin("pails.in");
	ofstream fout("pails.out");

	int x, y, k, m;
	fin >> x >> y >> k >> m;

	// No milk is done in 0 steps.
	f[0][0][0] = 1;

	// Start from l = 0 and use the current layer to compute the next
	for (int l = 0; l < k; l++)
		for (int i = 0; i <= x; i++)
			for (int j = 0; j <= y; j++)
				if (f[i][j][l]) {
					f[i][0][l + 1] = 1;
					f[0][j][l + 1] = 1;
					f[i][y][l + 1] = 1;
					f[x][j][l + 1] = 1;
					// Pour from i into j
					{

> 						int amountPoured = min(y - j, i);

Reviewer 2: snake_case for variables.

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

## Solution 3 (DP)

### Explanation

The possible "states" in this problem are a combination of the number of moves taken, and the amount of milk in both cups after this number of moves.

Let $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, a boolean, represent if it is possible to get to the amounts in the cups being $(i,j)$ in $l$ steps.
Note that state with $l$ being a specific value (herein referred to as $l_0$) can only transition to a state where $l$ is $l_0+1$, so we compute $\texttt{f}$ in order of $l$.

> First, initialize $\texttt{f}[0][0][0]$ as true, as there is no milk initially with no operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The states in this problem are a combination of the milk amounts in each pail and the number of operations to reach such amounts.

Let $\text{f}[i][j][l]$ represent if it is possible to reach $i$ and $j$ pail amounts in $l$ operations.
Our base case is $\text{f}[0][0][0]$ as true, since there is no milk initially.
```

- should try to use the vocabulary the problem statement uses
- this part is currently kinda jargony/verbose
- i think the part about computing DP in order of $l$ doesn't make sense unless you know the transitions

Now, run through $l$'s such that $0\leq l<K$, and all possible $i$'s and $j$'s with that $l$; for any true state $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, mark $\texttt{f}[i'][j'][l+1]$ as true for all $(i', j')$'s that can result from a single operation based on $(i, j)$.

> The possible operations and their mathematical representations can be found in the BFS section, and will not be repeated here.

Reviewer 3: i'd argue the operations here are identical to the DFS version, no? BFS version is well, a shortest paths transition. floodfill quite literally does the same thing but processes it in a different order with recursion.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, run through $l$'s such that $0\leq l<K$, and all possible $i$'s and $j$'s with that $l$; for any true state $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$, mark $\texttt{f}[i'][j'][l+1]$ as true for all $(i', j')$'s that can result from a single operation based on $(i, j)$.
The possible operations and their mathematical representations can be found in the DFS section, and will not be repeated here.
```

> The answer is simply the minimum of $|i+j-m|$ for all true $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$'s in the entire state space.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The answer is the minimum of $|i+j-m|$ for all true $\texttt{f}[i][j][l]$.
```

can cut the jargon
